You got to stop looking at people who
have these genetic variations as your
you can use them for inspiration, but
don't use them for advice. Because if
somebody's just genetically built to
just grow lots of muscle and you're not,
following their advice may get you
nowhere.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering which gives me
a unique perspective. Today I'm going to
be talking about something that some
would consider controversial but those
are stupid people because it's really
not that controversial. So,
we're going to be talking about genetics
and what is the thing, if there's any
one thing, and there is, that really
determines who's going to be a big
strong athlete and who's not going to be
a big strong athlete, or maybe stated
better, who is going to get there easily
and who is going to have to do a lot
more strategic work. That's what applies
to you because 99% of people are not
going to get huge muscular and strength
gains easily. Most people are going to
have to work incredibly hard for it. And
I'm going to explain how. And I'm going
to explain why there are differences
between these two groups of people. When
you look at the genetic variations with
different athletes and what is the one
thing that seems to determine who's a
great athlete and who's not a great
athlete or who's more easily positioned
in life to build more muscle versus not
build more muscle. What's really going
on is they have variation in tendon
insertion points. So the pectorals the
origin is right here on the sternum.
That's the same for everybody. but where
it connects on the humorous bone because
the job of the pectoral is to move the
humorous bone towards the midline of the
body. So
most people have that insertion right at
the top of the humorris but others
people who have this genetic advantage
I'm talking about it ends up being
further down the bone. So what happens
is when they're doing like a pressing
type movement, they come back, they're
spring loaded.
So they've stretched an a longer tendon.
The longer a tendon stretches and
especially the longer the tendon is, the
more energy is in that tendon that is
called recycled energy. Meaning it is
adding to the movement of responding.
So, it's stretched and it's you're sort
of sort of spring-loaded to come
forward,
but it doesn't take any energy, meaning
you don't need to contract a muscle.
This automatically happens. These are
basically springloaded people. And I
want you to remember that because it's a
great way to explain the argument. Now,
if you want a visualization, if you're
like, "Wow, Jake Wish, I think you're
just making this up." I'm not. Take
a look at the calf muscles on sprinters.
You will notice they are tight and very
high on the calf. So now I know people
are going to be like, "Oh yeah,
sprinters are African-American in in
descent almost always." Yes,
African-American people have higher
calves and the longer the tendon you
have, the more recycled energy you have.
So, you almost have a different resource
to draw from
that is going to aid in your physical
performance. I'm giving you a sprinter
analogy because you can see it. Like,
you won't see many sprinters with big,
long, wide calves. Just not going to
happen. Like sort of like the Viking
calf thing where somebody has just has,
you know, huge calves, but they're
they're not tight up towards the knee.
they're they're more more elongated.
That's probably not going to be a very
fast person. Maybe a strong person for a
number of different reasons. But when
you have this tendon variation, what
happens is when you exercise, like I
said, you're spring-loaded to come out
of the weaker position,
which means you are
regularly able to deal with more weight
and deal with that weight in more
compromising positions compared to other
people. Basically, you can just train
harder. So it doesn't mean you're
inherently more athletic, but it means
the level of fatigue you can go in
training is deeper. Therefore, stimulus
is deeper, therefore response is more
powerful. When you train with variable
resistance,
you're basically doing the same thing
externally.
So if I'm holding X3,
I'll just take the band off for this. If
I'm holding X3 and I'm holding X amount
of weight here and 5X here, well,
that's in accordance with my
biomechanics and I end up being able to
go to fatigue multiple times. So, you
know, I'll start doing reps out here and
then when I can't get out here, then I'm
then I'm doing shorter reps. Then when I
can't get there, I'm doing even shorter.
And so it ends up being so I might go to
momentary muscular fatigue five or six
times in one
exercise set. This is the kind of effect
that these genetically gifted people are
getting when they're working out because
they internally are offloading the
bottom. Whereas when you train with
variable resistance you just do the same
thing externally. And I think once you
understand this, two things happen. Is
you're going to start using variable
resistance because it's obviously
superior. The second thing is you got to
stop looking at people who have these
genetic variations as your you can use
them for inspiration, but don't use them
for advice. Because if somebody's just
genetically built to just grow lots of
muscle and you're not, following their
advice may get you nowhere. And that
should be obvious. I shouldn't even need
to say this, but here we are. And I I've
been dealing with thousands and
thousands of people through customer
support with with X3 and asking these
kinds of questions and and it's like you
know they'll they'll they'll then say
their favorite athlete who they're
trying to emulate the program of and I'm
like well you know you don't have that
person's genetics
so looking at what they did is unless
you have very gifted genetics that might
not be very useful. So, you know, like
reviewed a video uh not not that long
ago with uh Chris Bumstead's advice
overlaid with Dorian Yates and how their
advice sort of blended together. Now,
those are two of the most genetically
perfect people for building muscle that
have probably ever walked the earth.
What they were saying was something that
could apply. So, you have to run these
filters like like the the point of that
particular video was lower exercise
volume equals better results. Uh, as
long as you increase your intensity. And
while that's true of most people, you
still just got to keep in mind if you
have trouble gaining, you should
probably getting your be getting your
advice from somebody more like me as
opposed to somebody more like them. You
can still use them for inspiration and
still be a fan. But just you got to find
somebody who's like you to follow advice
from. I hope this helped. Leave a
comment. If you think I'm wrong, tell me
I'm wrong. If you think I'm right, tell
me I'm right. I like those better. See
you on the next one. If this video
helped you, I want you to subscribe and
follow. I'm going to put out videos on a
regular basis. I think they're going to
help a whole lot of people, especially
if you're one of those people that
doesn't just instantly grow from lifting
regular weights. We've got the answer
for you. [music]